This article is about the Treaty of Versailles of 28 June 1919, at the end of World War |.
The Treaty ended the state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers.
Itwas signed on 28 June 1919 in Versailles, exactly five years after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, which had directly led to the war.
The treaty wasregistered by the Secretariat of the League of Nations on 21 October 1919.Of the many provisions in the treaty, one of the most important and controversial required "Germany [to] accept the responsibility of Germany and her allies for causing all the loss and damage" during the war (theother members of the Central Powers signed treaties containing similar articles).
The treaty required Germany to disarm, make ample territorialconcessions, and pay reparations to certain countries that had formed the Entente powers.
At the time economists, notably John Maynard Keynes (a British delegate to the Paris Peace Conference), predicted that the treaty was too harsh—a"Carthaginian peace"—and said the reparations figure was excessive and counter-productive, views that, since then, have been the subject of ongoing debate by historians and economists.
On the other hand,prominent figures on the Allied side, such as French Marshal Ferdinand Foch, criticized the treaty for treating Germany too leniently.The result of these competing and sometimes conflicting goals among the victors was a compromise that left no one satisfied, and, in particular, Germany was neither pacified nor conciliated, nor was it permanentlyweakened.
The problems that arose from the treaty would lead to the Locarno Treaties, which improved relations between Germany and the other European powers, and the re-negotiation of the reparation systemresulting in the Dawes Plan, the Young Plan, and the indefinite postponement of reparations at the Lausanne Conference of 1932.
The treaty has sometimes been cited as a cause of World War Ir: although its actualimpact was not as severe as feared, its terms led to great resentment in Germany which powered the rise of the Nazi Party.Although it is often referred to as the "Versailles Conference", only the actual signing of the treaty took place at the historic palace.
Most of the negotiations were in Paris, with the "Big Four" meetings taking placegenerally at the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Quai d'Orsay.
